Israel's war cabinet is to meet for the
third time in three days as it considers
its response to Iran's First Direct
attack on the
country Israel's military has been
showing what it says is part of an
Iranian ballistic missile retrieved from
the Dead Sea following the strike it
says Iran launched 110 ballistic
missiles towards Israel at the weekend
in addition to drones and medium-range
missiles now most were shot down Iran
says its strike was in retaliation for
what it says was Israel's uh attack on a
an Iranian consulate building in Syria
and governments around the world are
calling for both sides to show restraint
with Iran's president Ibrahim RI warning
that any response by Israel would have
extensive and painful
consequences let's look at this with
mayor jaad Dana who's an Iranian Israeli
political analyst and lecturer at the
rman University in Israel he joins us
from Tel Aviv welcome to DW so the world
has has been calling on Iran and Israel
to deescalate but you tweeted recently
that Iran's attack has given Israel a
valuable opportunity what did you
mean well um the Islamic Republic of
Iran since uh 197 since 1991 has been uh
paying different uh proxy groups to kill
Israelis um groups such as Hamas isbah
Jihad islami and in fact um
one of the reasons why the oo peace
course failed is because of Iranian
regime's support for extremist groups uh
so every time Israel withdrew from
occupied territory there were there were
more suicide Bings in Israel from Iran
supported groups and this is one of the
reasons why eventually Israel is turned
against the peace process so for many
years the the Israeli government has
been looking to uh to punish the Iranian
regime for its support of these groups
for paying billions of dollars to
different groups to kill Irani to kill
Israeli citizens this is why I have to
say this is why Iran is in desperate
need of investment itself but that's
another issue but for the Israeli
government it's a it's a top priority to
protect its citizens okay and now that
the Iranian regime has attack has
attacked Israel directly then this is
the opportunity for the state of Israel
to to exact the price to exact the heavy
price
from the Iranian regime for not just
because of its support for not just
because of its attack but but it's three
decades long uh project of supporting
anyone who wants to kill an M Israelis
so what do you believe the heavy price
that the state of Israel should exact
from Iran
is well these are these are different
the different conversation these are
there different issues for example
attacks against Iran's military
infrastructure according to for
according to foreign news sources during
Mr naali Bennet there was an attack for
example against the
Iranian drone base in kman sha somewhere
between 100 to 200 drones were destroyed
um these such such as these attacks but
right now whether they would happen I'm
not so sure a range of options let's
let's move on because do you is it your
belief that a military response is
Israel's only option
I think it's very important look uh Phil
you know I'm from Iran originally I
would love to see peace between Iran and
Israel uh but the Iranian regime is the
only regime that denies the Holocaust in
in the world this is the only regime
that calls for the elimination of the
state of Israel and the killing of its
people there is no option for diplomacy
here the Iranian regime does not believe
in diplomacy doesn't even believe that
Jews have should have their own state so
there is no other option but to uh to uh
to send that you know to it's basically
realism it's international relations
School of realism Israel has to show
strength against the Iranian regime
otherwise it will continue supporting
groups that want to kill Israel is in
fact Phil according to Wall Street
Journal New York Times some of the Hamas
people took part in the October 7th
Massacre were trained in Iran and also
some of them in Syria and the Iranian
supervision that's speculation that we
can't get into here let's try let's look
at what the Israeli forign Minister
Israel Kats has been doing today he's
launched what he calls a diplomatic
offensive calling for sanctions against
Iran and answer in two parts if you
wouldn't mind do you think one that
request will be heeded and two what
effect do you think more sanctions on a
country that's already heavily
sanctioned will
have um I'm not sure if it will be heed
I don't have enough knowledge on
European diplomacy to be able to tell
you but I can tell you that uh if the
irgc for example Islamic revolutionary
guard is
sanctioned then this would be a huge
blow to the Iranian regime because it
uses the irgc's massive economic Empire
to finance attacks and this would be a
setback what it will happen that will
depend on on European politics and
that's something that is not my subject
of expertise okay that's good talking to
you thank you so much for taking us
through that mayor Javid danfa in Tel
Aviv thank
you now governor ments around the world
are calling for restraint as Israel
weighs its response to last weekend's
attacks by Iran European Union foreign
ministers are holding hastily scheduled
talks to discuss the volatile situation
in the Middle East Israel's allies are
trying to strike a balance between
standing in solidarity with Israel and
curbing further fighting in the
region air defenses destroyed these
Iranian drones over Israel last weekend
now Western powers are watching closely
as Tel Aviv mulls its next move tan says
the attacks were self-defense after a
suspected Israeli strike on its Embassy
in Damascus but countries ranging from
Kenya to the United States and Germany
have condemned
Iran the Iranian regime launched an
unprecedented attack against Israel this
weekend and has led the region to the
edge of the Abyss Iran stands
isolated Israel is asking its allies to
Target tan with more sanctions adding to
those the US has long had in place and
the European unions raft of travel bans
and embargos over allegations of Rights
abuses in Iran nuclear proliferation
terrorist activities arming Russia and
aiding and abetting the Syrian
government some experts say to little
effect they're already sanctions now
against Iran uh including on drones for
example the building of drones well that
certainly hasn't stopped uh the Iranians
to you know produce hundreds of them I
cannot sufficiently stress how how um
we're on the knife edge of big
geostrategic changes many now fear
Israeli retaliation could spark an even
wider regional conflict prompting
Western leaders to ask Tel Aviv to
exercise restraint the US has warned it
won't take part in a military counter
offensive and the EU is calling for
we want to continue our work to
deescalate this is something because we
said very clearly not only on in the
aftermath of what happened last week but
already before that the regional
escalation will benefit no one and this
is one of the main objectives of our
efforts to make sure that there is no
further escalation because this is
bringing us to the brink of a new
unforeseen situation in the Middle East
unforeseen and unpredictable with Gaza
still under bombardment hostages still
caught in the crossfire and the
humanitarian situation still
dire Mary Eisen served in the Israeli
intelligence community and retired from
active duty in 2004 at the rank of
Colonel she's now managing director of
The International Institute for
counterterrorism welcome to DW uh
Colonel Eisen um what do you think
Israel's next move should
be Israel has to respond in some way
when I say respond this is about the
initiative the Israeli public I don't in
that sense it's not about us and what we
want it's about what the perceptions are
in the greater Middle East um Iran
attacked us directly we need to do some
kind of not retaliation but response
initiative so that Iran does not define
the rules of the game right so is this
is this do you think then likely to be
another of the sort of graduated attacks
everyone is saying that when uh Iran
attacked Israel it it gave you so much
uh notice and sent over these slow
drones so that Israel would be ready to
blow them down so that honor was served
on both sides Iran was seen to respond
and Israel was seen to uh do something
about it no well one person got got got
injured but no major damage was done is
that the sort of thing that you're
expecting uh from Israel
it's kind of interesting that everybody
takes for granted that the Israeli
intercepting defense systems would stop
the 99% that it did I have to tell you
as an Israeli I did not know that they
would stop 99% and I don't accept the
premise that Iran did this because they
thought that they weren't going to
injure anybody they fired in over 300
projectiles and in that sense this is
about making a statement I don't
understand why everybody thinks that
Iran didn't think that they would do
damage they sent in heavy duty cruise
missiles suicide drones and I remind us
all they supply all of the Weaponry that
is fired daily into Israel from his Bala
from thetis that doesn't come from
nowhere right so I don't think that the
Israeli response is about just showing
face it's about a real Attack that Iran
did and it's about deterence within the
Middle East so do you therefore expect
uh Israel's response uh to be
escalatory I think that Israel needs to
be on the initiative I think that Iran
should not Define the rules of how you
act not against Israel and not in the
world we're talking about a regime that
is acknowledged as an enemy
authoritarian um regime that exports not
just terrorism ideology ideas they call
not just for the destruction of Israel
they want to do much beyond that and so
it's not about the retaliation per se
it's about Iran not defining the rules
not for Israel not for the rest of the
world Iran says that the S Saturday
night's attack on Israel is is in
keeping with its rights to self-defense
after Israel's deadly bombing of Iran's
Consulate in Syria can you see why they
would say
that I think that Iran is exceedingly
good at trying to frame the information
Warfare where they are a legitimate
member of the International Community
and I'll ask all of the viewers right
now is a country that calls openly Kam
you can show him also the supreme leader
calls openly for the destruction of the
state of Israel he didn't do that after
the April 1 to attack he does that every
single week in his weekly sermon a
country that exports capabilities ideas
ideology weapons all of the different
things that we're seeing in the Middle
East this is not just something of
self-defense Iran has been attacking
Israel and participating in the war
against Israel for years not since April
1st with the alleged Israeli attack
against their um um Iranian
revolutionary guard um fighters who were
inside Syria do you think uh Benjamin
Netanyahu has uh lost control of this
war when you consider the original Hamas
strike that blindsided Israel so-called
Mr Security in 6 months one of the
greatest military powers in the Middle
East still hasn't achieved its goal of
destroying Hamas and rescuing the
hostages and now Iran has had the nerve
to attack Israel directly rather than
through its Proxes is Mr Netanyahu the
right man to lead this
war so you asked about netan and I'm
asking you again about the premise in
that sense of what you said I'm here
inside Israel right now and that's
turning the horrific attack that Kamas
did against Israel being about prime
minister nany I'm not a supporter of
prime minister Netanyahu and he knows
that and yes he has sold himself as Mr
security but the Colossal failure of
October 7th is not only Nan's and I
would even go so far to say that the
policy of any alternative government
when it comes to Security will not be
very different from prime minister netan
he has additional people within the
government everybody likes to quote the
extreme elements but those are
politicians making statements they're
not necessarily the ones who make the
decisions in the security cabinet that
horrific attack on October 7th is not
just about the Israeli failure it's
about the ideology of Hamas it's because
we erroneously thought that Hamas was on
a different route we me I made that
mistake not just prime minister Nan as
an expert I say that and because of that
I do think that we are trying as hard as
we can to attack Hamas and we're not
destroying it in that sense because
we're both trying to acknowledge and
understand the loss of life that is
happening within the Gaza Strip because
of the way that Hamas built themselves
so there is no easy resolution it wasn't
about solving it taking 250 hostages is
what a terror Army does there is no easy
way out of it must view the hostages as
collateral damage as bargaining chips
they don't see them as human at all
thanks for joining us Mary eizen from
The International Institute for
counterterrorism